
ADDITIONAL NOTES:

    SNI (Server Name Indication) - multiple SSL certificates to one server. Means allow multiple websites with different domain to serve from one server.

    KMS - AWS manages the software for encryption.
    HSM - AWS provides the encryption hardware.
    HSM Client --> HSM CLuster in multi AZ.
    User management happen using HSM client.
    Deployed and managed from customer vpc. Accessible and can be shared across vpc using vpc peering.
    
    Glacier all data is encrypted by using AES256.

    S3 Access logs - capture detailed request.

    Trusted Advisor - used to check bucket permission (public).

    Cloudwatch events -> Enable cloudtrail object level logging in s3 first.

    Bucket policy SourceIP condition apply only on public or elastic ip (not on private IP).
    SourceVPC or SourceVPCe - based on vpc or vpc endpoint.
    S3 presigned url default valid by 3600 seconds and override by --expires-in command.

    S3 Access Point with shared bucket: 
            VPC A - Central VPC - Have bucket - Have accesspoint policy.
            VPC B - Other VPC - Have Gateway endpoint -> Connects to central VPC access point.

    Security group - Support to refer security group in another vpc connected using vpc peering.

    WAF (Logs) -> Cloudwatch, S3, Kinesis firehose.

    ALB -> Have connection termination. 
    NLB -> No connection termination. No security group in NLB. Pass client IP. 

    Amazon Inspector - Analyze unintended network access and analyze os for vulnarabilities. It is used in EC2 and for images in ECR.

    AWS config doesnot prevent from happening but only monitors. It solves,
            Is any unrestricted SSH access to security group.
            Do buckets have public access
            Any configuration changes over time.
    Can use aws managed config rules or use custom config rule by using lambda.
    Have auto remediation using ssm documents which trigger when not complaiance.

    Guardduty protects against crypto attacks that have dedicated findings.

    VPC:
        Min size of /28 , max size of /16.
        in subnet, First 4 and last 1 ip reserved by AWS.
        Default route is 0.0.0.0/0
        All IPV6 address are public.
        Egress Only Internet Gateway - Support IPV6. 

    VPC Peering doesnot support edge to edge routing. 
    VPCA <> VPCB <> Site to Site VPN / Direct connect / Internet gateway / Nat gateway / Gateway VPC endpoint (S3 or dynamodb).

    Transit VPC (SOftware VPN runs on ec2) - support transitive connection - more complex routing rules, overlapping cidr ranges, network level packet filtering. 
    
    Transit Gateway - It support IP MULTICAST. support edge to edge routing.

    Central VPC A (Private subnet) -> Transit gateway -> VPC B private subnet ENI (Attachment) -> VPC B public NAT.

    Gateway endpoint requires route and defined at VPC level. DNS resolution must be enabled in VPC. 
    Gateway endpoint cannot extend outside of VPC means cannot use with DX, VPN, TGW, peering.

    Interface endpoint uses ENI. Uses security group. It uses Private DNS,
        public hostname of service will resolve to private endpoint interface hostname.
        vpc setting, enable dns hostnames + enable dns support.
        Interface can access from DX, VPN connection.

    VPC endpoint policy checks at endpoint level. But still allow from public, so add deny condition to allow only from endpoint.
    aws:sourceIP does not help in vpc endpoints as this block only elatic ip or public ip. 

    AWS Privatelink (VPC endpoint services) -> Based on producer and consumer service. Can be cross account or cross region. No need of VPC peering, IGW, NGW, Route tables.
        Requires a NLB on producer and ENI on consumer side. Private connection between NLB and ENI.

    Site to Site VPN works with Global Accelarator.
    CGW -> VGW -> NAT Gateway -> IGW -> Internet (Blocked by NAT Gateway restriction)
    CGW -> VGW -> NAT Instance -> IGW -> Internet (Allow)
    Private subnet -> VGW -> CGW -> Onprem NAT -> Internet (Allow)

    CloudHub is used to connect upto 10 CGW for each VGW. 

    ClientVPN is used to connect from your computer using OpenVPN to your private network in AWS and onprem.

    Site to Site VPN connection connects to one VPC only. SO use shared service VPC which inturn connect to VPC using peering.

    In Direct connect, VPC endpoint cant accessed by using Private VIF. 

    EBS Multi attach - io1/io2 - Same EBS attach to multiple EC2 instances.
    IO2 block express support upto 256,000 iops. 
    Ephermal storage is good for cache/scratch data/temporary data.
    
    EFS have life cycle management. EFS can mount on on-prem.
    EFS have resource based policy like S3 bucket policy.

    AWS Datasync preserves file permission and metadata.AWS Snowcone is preinstalled with datasync agent.

    Cloudfront support upload and download content. 
    CLoudfront - EC2 or ALB as Origin:
            EC2 must be public.
            Security group of instance allow all public ip of edge location.

            ALB must be public. EC2 can be private. 
            Security group of ALB allow all public ip of edge location.
    Cloudfront caching is based on header, cookies, query string parameter. 
    Cloudfront provides cloudfront function at edge location (in viewer req/res) and lambda@edge at regional edge (both viewr & origin req/res) location.

    SQS Access policy is similar to bucket policy.
    SNS FIFO is similar to SQS FIFO.
    Message Filtering in SNS.

    Dedicated host has only host affinity to place the ec2 after stop and start.

    