
VPC PEERING: 
    Used to connect one VPC to another. Or from one central VPC to multiple VPC.
    Instances in both vpc communicate with each other as they are in same network.
    Can create VPC peering in same account or different account or different region.


CROSS ACCOUNT ACCESS: 
    Resource based policy specifies who can access resurces.
    

CLOUDFRONT ENCRYPTION:
    Field level encryption adds additional layer of security along with HTTPS that protects specific data throughout processing. It is encrypted in edge location and only descrypted by application.
    Signed URL is used to distribute private content.
    Cant use self signed certificate between cloudfront and origin.
    In cloudfront, have default SSL certificates not in ELB.

    HTTPS between user and cloudfront,
        Can use certificate issued by trusted CA which import into ACM or AWS IAM.
        Can use certificate provided by ACM.

    HTTPS between cloudfront and origin,
        If origin is ELB, can use ACM or trusted CA.
        If origin is not ELB like EC2, must use trusted CA.

    If cloudfront custom domain, then cannot use default certificate. For default domain, can use default certificate.


DIRECT CONNECT:
    It is connecting onprem to AWS by acheive higher privacy benefits, additional data transfer bandwidth and more predictable data transfer performance. 
    Consistent network experience than internet based connections.
    Network device that support BGP and BGP MD5 authentication is needed in onprem to establish connection.


KINESIS:
    When kinesis data stream is configured as source for kinesis firehose, firehose putrecord & putrecordbatch operations are disabled by default and kinesis agent cannot write directly to firehose.
    Kinesis agent is stand alone java software application that offers easy way to collect and send data to kinesis data stream or data firehose. 


AWS SSO (IDENTITY CENTRE):
    Simple AD is not supported. 


SSM STATE MANAGER:
    It is secure and scalable configuration management service that automates the process of keeping EC2 and hybrid infrastructure in specific state,
        Bootstrap instances with specific software.
        Download and upload agents like ssm agent.
        Configure network settings.
        Join instances to windows domain.
        Patch instances with software updates.
        Run scripts on linux and windows managed instances.

    SSM -> State Manager -> Association (Documents, Target, Schedule)


AWS SHIELD:
    Support Route 53, Cloudfront etc


AWS WAF: 
    Doesnot support Route 53.


AMAZON CLOUDSEARCH:
    It is fully managed service that makes easy to setup, manage and scale a SEARCH SOLUTION for WEBSITE OR APPLICATION.


AWS REKOGNITION:
    Read text from images.


EC2:
    Migrate instance to another region with same key pair: 
        1. Create instances.
        2. Under instance -> Actions -> Image & templates -> Create image.
        3. Under images -> AMI -> Copy AMI -> Select different region.
        4. In destination region, under Key pair -> Actions -> Import key.
        5. NOTE: Dont use .pem file. It contains private key, use key-gen tool to generate public key from .pem file.
        6. Once imported, it available in another region.

    Key-pair is region specific. In KMS, can generate single or multi region key.


AWS DIRECT CONNECT:
    Can connect direct connect with VPC.
    It consists of aws cage (direct connect endpoints) and customer cage (router)
    Onprem -> Customer cage (customer gateway) -> Direct connect endoint -> VGW or Direct connect gateway.
    VGW is connected to single vpc in one region.
    Direct connect gateway is global and connect to multiple VGW in different regions.
    Public Interface,, Private Interface, Transit Interface. 
    Link Aggregation group (LACP protocol).
    Transt interface is used to include transit gateway to multiple vpc.
    To connect to AWS public services use Public virtual Interface. 
    To connect to S3, use public vitural interface not private virtual interface.


SITE TO SITE VPN CONNECTION:
    Use non overlaping cidr blocks.
    IPV6 traffic is not supported in virtual private gateway.
    It doesnot support path MTU discovery.
    Customer -> Customer gateway -> Ipsec VPN Tunnel -> VGW or Transit gateway.
    It is static (No BGW) and dynamic IPS (BGW)


DIRECT CONNECT + VPN:
    It utilizes the Ipsec tunnel encryption vis direct connect.
    In customer side, customer gateway.
    In aws side, connect to VGW.

VPC ENDPOINT:
    It helps to connect from private subnet to AWS services without going through internet.
    It consists of, 
        Interface endpoint - Uses ENI 
        gateway endpoint - Used Route table. SUpport only S3 & Dynamodb. 

RDS: 
    RDS doesnot support RMAN (Recovery Manager) backup utility.
    Amazon RDS doesnot support oracle feature like Multitenent database, Real Application CLuster, Unified Auditing, Database Vault etc.


STORAGE GATEWAY:
    In volume gateway, volume is stored in s3 as snapshot. To restore, require EBS volume or volume storage gateway. Support POSIX complaint. 
    Cache Volume - Support upto 1024 TB. 
    Storage volume - Support upto 512 TB.
    Storage gateway uses "Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol"(CHAP) to authenticate ISCSI and initiator connections. It provides protection agaings playback attacks. 

S3:
    Amazon S3 is not a POSIX complaint.


BYOIP (Bring Your Own IP):
    It helps to maintain same onprem IP while moving to Cloud.
    RRI is used for registration. 


RAM (Resource Access Manager): 
    Trusted service enables to perform tasks in your organization and accounts on your behalf.


ROUTE 53:
    Bad actor spoof site and use their own ip address is called man in middle attack. 
    It support DNSSEC for domain registration and DNS Service.
    Generally s3 owner pays for the storage and data transfer cost. If enabled "Requester pays", requester will pay for request and data transfer cost. Also require requester to pass x-amz-requester-pay in header or pass parameter in CLI.
    Health check is available for non alias records. For alias records, no health check.
    For alias records, specify Evaluate target health to Yes. 
    For non alias records, use health check.


RDS:
    In multi AZ, cannot access standby instance.


LAMBDA + VPC:
    Lambda create ENI that allow lambda to access VPC resources.


OPSWORKS:
    Autohealing is set at layer level which can be enabled. It helps to automatically replace instance failed instances.


AWS VM IMPORT/EXPORT vs SMS:
    Import/Export helps to move images from AWS from/to onprem. It doesnot do incremenetal images.
    SMS does incremental updates.


CERTIFICATE MANAGER (ACM):
    It is region specific. 
    For ELB, create certificate with same fqdn in each region or account. 
    For cloudfront, create certificate in us-east-1.


ELASTIC CACHE REDIS:
    It gives,
        Daily automatic backup
        Manual backup using Redis append only file (AOF).
        Setting up multi AZ with automatic failover.


SCP:
    Service control policy.
    SCP doesnot affect service linked roles.
    Service linked role enable other services to interact with organization.


AMAZON SNS: 
    Amazon SNS mobile push notification. 


AWS PINPOINT:
    To send push notifications.


VPN CLOUDHUB:
    If have multiple VPN connections, can provide secure communication between sites.
    Onprem can connect to one another using VPN or Direct connect.

    VPC  -> OnPrem branch1
    VPC  -> OnPrem branch2 
    Onprem branch1 <- using vpn or direct connect -> Onprem branch2


TRANSIT GATEWAY:
    Connect VPC to onprem using central hub.


LDAP:
    Light Weight Active Directory Protocol.
    It is communication protocol used to interact with AD.


VPC PEERING:
    Now allows VPC peering between VPC across regions.
    Inter region VPC peering allows communcation between VPC using private IPs.
    Traffic stays on AWS network and never traverse in public internet.


AWS Shield Advanced - SYN flood and UDP reflection attacks.


CLOUDWATCH Dashboard:
    Customizable home pages in cloudwatch console that can be use to monitor resource in single view though resources are spread across region.


BLUE GREEN DEPLOYMENT NOT SUITABLE:
    Sharing of resources is not feasible.
    Schema changes to complex to decouple from code change.
    Application need deployment aware
    Not blue green deployment friendly.

IDENTITY BROKER:
    If saml2 is not supported, then to use custom identity broker.
    Identity broker interact with STS with AssumeRole or GetFederationTokens to obtain security credentials.

AWS CONFIG:
    It helps,
        Evaluate AWS resources for desire configuration.
        Get snapshot of current configuration.
        Retrieve configuration of 1 or more resources.
        Retrieve historical configuration.
        Receive notification whenver resource is created, updated or deleted.
        View relationship between resources. Resources using particular security group.

EC2:
    Depends upon instance type, no of ENI can attach is varies.

EBS Volume:
    For encryption at rest, it supports
        Encrypt data before storing on EBS
        Use 3rd part volume encryption software.
        Use native data encryption drivers.

LAMBDA:
    Lambda function cannot connect directly to VPC with dedicated instance tenancy.
    For lambda to connect to VPC, require sufficient ENI.

RESERVED INSTANCE:
    If reserved instances bought in specific AZ. Only other accounts can share the reserve instance in that particular AZ.

Appsych is recommended for GraphQL APIs not REST APIs

Choose memcache over redis in,
    Need simplest model.
    Need to run large nodes with multiple cores or threads.
    Need the ability to scale out or scale in by adding/removing nodes as demand changes.
    Need to cache object such as database.

SQS Queue cannot be set as input to Step functions.

RTMP is used for video streaming not for static images.

Amazon Workdocs:
    It is fully managed, secure content creation, storage and collaboration service.
    Can easily create, edit and share content because stored centrally on AWS so can share easily.
    Amazon workdocs content manager is high level utility tool that upload content or download it from amazon worksite.
    For user, use ananymoous aws credentials and authentication token.
    For administrator, use aws iam credentials. 


AWS Network Firewall Service:

TAGS:
    Upto 50 user defined tags allowed per resource.
    For each resource, can edit/create tags individually.
    Tag editor is used to add/modify tags for bulk of resources.
    Cost Allocation Tags:
        AWS defined
        User defined.    
    SCP are not available if enabled only consolidated billing feature.


Amazon Workspace:
    It enables to provision virtual, cloud based microsoft windows or amazon linux desktops for users.
    Users can access virtual desktops from multiple devices or browsers.

    Amazon workspace Application Manager - It provides flexible and secure way to deploy and manage application in Workspace with Windows and automatic maintenance.

AppStream 2.0:
    It is fully managed application streaming service.
    Centrally manage desktop application on Appstream and securely deliver to any computer.


S3 glacier doesnot have builtin search function to help retrieve data, so metadata and archive id to store in database.

Amazon data life cycle manager - used to automate the creation, deletion, retention of snapshots.

Cloud HSM, For account manager to login use SSH.

=> Web ACL add at ALB, Custom header at Cloudfront. 

Application cannot resolve record sets created in private hosted zone of another aws account. Solution is Associate private hosted zone with vpc in another account. It requires, 
        1. Authorize the association in Route53 in account A to VPC in account B.
        2. From account B, create the association.
        3. Delete the association authorization after association is created.

Cloud Migration Tools:
    Application Discovery Service
            Export data as CSV and helps to Total Cost of Ownership.
    AWS Migration Hub 
    Cloud Adoption Readiness Tool
            Helps organization of all sizes develop efficient and effective plans for cloud adoption.
            16 question online survey and assessment report based on 6 perspectives include business, people, process, platform, operations and security.
    
Federation Identity:
    Idp defines SAML assertions that map user or group in company to IAM roles with appropriate permissions.
    IAM roles created for the federated users or groups trust policy have set SAML provider as principal.
    Webportal calls AWS STS AssumerolewithSAML with ARN of SAML provider, ARN of IAM role and SAML assertion from IdP.

Fargate - ECR:
    When Fargate is launched, it requires ENI to connect to the internet to pull images.
        For tasks in,
            Public subnet - Enable "Auto assign public ip"
            Private subnet - Disable "Auto assign public ip" and configure NAT gateway in public subnet to connect to internet.

S3 Bucket:
    IgnorePublicAcls - Ignore all public ACLs on bucket and its objects.
    BlockPublicAcls  - PUT bucket acls and put object request are blocked.
    BlockPublicPolicy - Reject request to put a bucket policy.
    RestrictPublicBuckets - Restrict access to principles.

Snowball - Increase data transfer speed to snowball:
    Use the latest mac or linux snowball client.
    Batch small files together.
    Perform multiple copy operations one time.
    Copy from multiple workstations.
    Transfer directories not files.

NLB uses flow hash algorithm. ALB uses round robin, least_outstanding_request algorithm.
NLB doesnot have security group and pass traffic directly.
Listener port and health check port both to be allowed.

Can use AWS budgets to track service cost within service catalog. Budget can be associated with product or portfolio level. 

ALB cannot be used to distribute traffic in multi region.

Transit Gateway:
    Used to interconnect VPC and Onprem.
    Transit gateway can be attach to,
        One or More VPC
        AWS Direct connect gateway
        Peering connection with another transit gateway 
        VPN connection to transit gateway 
        Connect SD/WAN / third party network applicance.

Legacy application inside VPC with hard coded IP address, to failover:
    Create a secondary ENI
    Assign secondary private IP address to primary ENI 

S3 Object Encryption:
    If trust relationship is not maintained, then user cant assume the role. 
    Verify the IAM role has decrypt permission of KMS key.

Appsynch:
    It is GraphQL API.
    Useful to retrive data from multiple sources.

AWS Organizations:
    All resources including iam user should create in separate accounts.
    Cloud trail should create in management accounts.

S3 Multipart Upload:
    It uses to transfer larger files by split into parallel.
    If fails, it occupies space and incurs charges.
    However this failed is not visible in bucket and use life cycle rule to cleanup.

API Gateway Authorization:
    Set the authorization to AWS_IAM for API gateway. 
    Creata a permission policy that grands "execute-api:invoke" permission on API. 
    lambda:invoke - Permission to invoke lambda function.
    execute-api:invoke - Permission to invoke API.
    execute-api:invalidatecache - Permission to refresh cache.

For NACL, due to ephermal ports, allows from 1024 - 65k port range.

For unstructured data and eliminate licensing cost - Dynamodb 

S3 Endpoint:
    Attach policy to s3 gateway point.
    From EC2, create a role.
    Attach a policy to s3 bucket to allow this role.

AWS Config supports auto remediation.

AWS Opsworks support blue/green deployment. It doesnot support Canary.

Whitelisted IP address - Elastic IP can be assign to NAT Gateway only but not Internet Gateway.

Web ACL will not provide DDOS attacks.

For DB Migration with internet bandwidth issue and 2 weeks time,
    Use the snowball for import and export to Aurora.
    Once synchronized, change dns entry to point to new DB.

Always create a OU and move the acocunts for access control.

Cloudfront - Signed cookies - Application send the set-cookie header to viewer and control access to files using signed cookies.

For small applications, ECs is less expensive.

EBS Volume Encryption:
    Encrypt using native data encryption driver
    Implement 3rd party encryption tools
    Encrypt data before storing it on ebs.

NOTE: Redshift cross region snapshot not cross region replication in source region. Snapshot copy grant in destination region.

For below, no S3 transfer cost:
        Data transfered in from the internet.
        Data transfer out to ec2 instance in same region.
        Data transfer out to cloudfront.

Lambda default quoto 1000 concurrency limit and can be increase by contacting aws support.

Kinesis data streams support enhanced fanout feature. 

Data cant be directly copied from snowball edge to glacier. It first move to s3 and then to glacier.

If multiple application written in different languages, prefer ECS than bean stalk. in beanstalk, require to create multiple instances for different language application.

AWS Global accelarator uses endpoint weights. Can shift traffic gradually or all at once between blue and green environment without being subject to DNS CACHING on client devices and internet resolvers. 

Firehose cannot write directly to dynamodb. 

PutObject API with public read permission is detected in CloudTrail logs only not in s3 event notifications.

${aws:username}

Can add MFA protection to role. 

use IAM Access Analyzer to find out which resources are exposed.

DataSync is online data transfer that simplifies, automates and accelarate copying large amounts of data to and from AWS storage services like EFS, S3, FSx over internet or direct connect. It performs data integrity verification during transfer and end of transfer.

Redis authentication token enable Redis to require a token(password) before allowing clients to run commands.

Limitation on using Redshift as Target in DMS:
    Dont enable versioning for intermediate s3 bucket.
    _schema is not migrated.
    Doesnot support VARCHAR with > 64kb.
    Doesnot support custom DNS name. 
    Redshift cluster must be in same acocunt and region of replication instances.

Connect on-prem to s3 using Direct connect:
    Public virtual interface 
    Private virtual interface using s3 endpoint.

S3 Select - It works with compressed and server side encrypted objects. 
S3 glacier select - It cannot be used on compressed data.

S3 static website:
    AWS account owns the bucket must also owns the object.
    Objects cant be encrypted by using KMS.

Custom routing accelarator is new type of accelarator in Global accelarator. It allows to use own application logic to route one or more users to specific ec2 in single or multiple region using endpoints.

Kinesis firehose support plug and play lambda integration.

Route53 health check cannot be used to private ip associated with instances.

Storge gateway doesnot refresh cache when upload directly on s3, perform RefreshCache operation to see changes on file share. 

If private ip, use interface endpoint for s3. 

Connection draining on ELB - It keep maximum time for load balancer to keep connection alive before reporting the instance as de-registered. It wait for inflight connection to complete.

Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) for Oracle and SQL server.
IAM authentication for MYSQL and Postgresql. Authorization happens in RDS.

IAM Role owner pay for the s3 transfer cost. 

Trusted advisor doesnot have API to increase limit. Service Quote have API. AWS Support doesnot have API.
Trusted advisor detect at bucket level only. For object level, use s3 events with lambda.



















